Here are Michael's 5 C's.
Your checklist to effective communications.
Here is a simple checklist of items I would like you to use
every day because you'll be writing every day,
to better ensure your communications are effective
and to get your messages across.
This applies to the written and verbal communications by the way,
but primarily written since you have time to think
and plan those communications.
Okay, let's check them out.
For all forms of communication you may do,
I would like you to think and plan your communications,
okay?
Think and plan ahead of time.
So before you click the send, save, or print button,
I want you to make sure that what you are writing is clear,
that it's transparent and able to be easily comprehended.
Also, concise.
Use as few words as possible to give the necessary information or
compressed information in order to be brief.
And of course, courteous.
Always be polite in a way that shows consideration of others and good manners.
Consistency is very important, too.
This is to be able to maintain the particular standard or repeat a
particular activity or artifact with minimal variation.
We're going to talk about more of standardized agenda, standardized emails, etc.
It's very important for consistent communication.
And lastly, compelling.
We want your readers or listeners to your message be attracted to your
message and encourage strong interest and attention.
They want to read your email.
They may want to read your document because it's compelling.
Clear, concise, courteous, consistent, and compelling; Michael's 5 C's.
Every communiqué you produce follows the five C's and you will be successful.
You want your stakeholders and customers to think,
hey, I just received an email from my project manager,
my team leader; I can't wait to open it. Okay, now let's see some examples about what I mean.